Let’s get the answers to the marketing
test.
There are 20 questions and 25
correct answers.
What is the best variable or
criterion to segment?
This is something that is subjective but
it is our opinion and it is very well-founded.
We want you to be on fire that you
always have to incorporate in your
segmentation always the criterion
of the benefit that customers
are looking for or the problem
you are solving.
You always have to segment like this.
The members of the conformist
have a desire to learn.
We are describing the client.
We are using psychographic
variable, psychographic segmentation.
We are segmented by profiles.
Entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs,
professionals, freelance, managers.
We are also segmenting, but we are
segmenting according to what we are segmenting.
In this case, what is the variable?
This is a demographic segmentation.
Now we will segment by profit
that, as I have said, is the
most valuable to define
our value proposals, to increase
the effectiveness and efficiency
of our marketing campaigns,
etc.
It is also the most strategic.
What segments would we get?
Let us see.
People who want to start a company.
This is the benefit we are
looking for.
Businesses with a turnover of
more than 1 million euros.
No, this is not describing a benefit.
I am describing the starting point.
This is based on a
demographic variable.
Therefore no.
People who want to update their knowledge.
Yes, it is a benefit, isn’t it?
Or entrepreneurs who want to
know the tools to grow their
company.
It is also a benefit.
Is the positioning dependent on competition?
Yes, it depends on the competition.
Positioning is the place we occupy
in the customer’s mind, but
obviously it depends on the
gap competitors leave us.
Imagine that you want your
positioning to be the
reference in cola drinks.
It’s a bit complicated because
Coca-Cola is probably the most
valuable brand in the world.
It’s an extreme example, but I want
you to understand why
positioning depends on competition.
We’ll define the script of the
messages to attract and convince a
customer.
This is a competition
that is truly differentiating.
Know how to transmit our messages
well, know how to appeal
to key messages to get in
touch and convince how to
start?
Every story.
How do we?
Do we show you your problem?
Do we give them confidence and security?
Do we tell you the plan?
So, how will we help him?
Or do we start by making him see what
the happy end is or what the desire is?
The best answer is four.
The way to stick someone is from
the beginning that they perceive,
see the benefit, feel identified
with that desire, make
them see the happy end.
By the way, I also like the answer
A, we also gave it as valid, because
it is true that you can also
empathize and stick a lot
if someone makes him see
from the beginning the problem
he has.
The answer B and C are not good.
Why is?
Because generating confidence and
security or letting you very clear what
the plan is, how you will help you, is
a necessary condition, obviously,
but it is not the first thing.
The first thing is that you have
to show the customer how you will help
him, how he will change his life
and then to buy you, because yes,
you will have to generate confidence
and security or you will have
to tell him how you will help him.
Thus, these two answers are
good.
What is the customer person?
What are the benefits?
And here what we say is that one
answer that is incorrect, understand
that they are hurt by the
problem, yes, improve our marketing
campaigns, yes, the customer
person helps us to understand
the customers very well and
so we will improve the marketing
campaigns.
Can you measure the size of the market?
The truth is, no, there are other
tools you already know or should
already know, such as tam samson,
for example, but the customer
person is to understand, not
to quantify.
A powerful brand that allows us,
allows us to connect better with
customers who share our values,
allows us to sell more expensive,
allows us to generate entry
bars, all are correct.
The customer journey is
a tool that you need to know very
well because it is excellent.
To understand how our customers
feel at each touchpoint,
yes, to understand if the customer
experience is different between
the different segments, because
we do a customer journey for
each segment or for each
customer person and understand
if there are differences.
To identify things that we must improve
in the short term, because yes,
many times the customer journey
we identify things that then
become a quick win because we
make small changes that increase
the customer experience
very much.
And to quantify customer experience
as if it were an objective
and comparable indicator, no,
the customer journey is a
tool to understand, to improve,
but it is not a tool
to measure customer
experience.
This might be the NPS.
Let us now talk about the
different approaches to fixing prices,
cost, market and value.
A consultant, how should I do it?
I’m not telling you how they do it, but
how they should.
A consultancy is a high-value
service company and should
be able to set prices based
on the value that customers
have.
If you have to do it based on
cost, hours, or the market,
etc., it’s because you’re
not providing enough value.
In contrast, in the red oceans,
in the highly competitive markets,
where proposals are very
indifferent, etc., companies
are usually forced to
fix prices according
to what.
Look, basically, at the cost and
competition, mainly at the competition,
because you cannot get out
of the competition’s prices
because you are not different
from others.
And in addition, in many cases
it is true that the cost that all
competitors are putting or the
price they have obtained through,
from the cost, because
increasing something it, that
is, making a markup to get a margin.
You need to know why customers
buy you.
What is the main trigger?
Why are they buying you?
Why is?
Let us think.
Why are you different from your competitors?
No is no.
I don’t buy things because they’
re different from others.
Why customer experience,
wow?
No, not even
Why do we trust these companies?
No to.
I buy things and you and everyone
else buy products or services
that give a response to a problem
we have, that satisfies
a need, that generates a
benefit for us.
That is the main lever.
Then, in addition, you will choose
one that is better than the others,
that the customer experience is good,
a company in which you generate trust.
But the truth is that what
you buy is for that.
And all companies have to have
this absolutely clear in
our head.
Why do customers buy us?
What is more powerful?
What makes you act more immediately?
To pay more?
Avoiding a risk or problem or
getting a benefit?
For common sense,
the first.
We want to be a customer-centered company.
You know that metrics are the
determinants of any company’
s management.
Depending on whether you measure one thing
or measure another, you will be
a type of question: What are the
most important metrics or some of
the most important to focus on the customer?
The NPS is.
The conversion rate, yes.
Because if we are increasing the
value added to the customer experience,
the conversion rates
will improve.
Sales, because sales do not
have to be directly representative
of that we are doing the
best with the customer.
And we are also increasing sales
because we invest a lot more in marketing,
but the customer experience
is not better.
The revenue per head, that is, the
sales per employee, because we are
in the same.
No, it is not directly
representative of customer experience.
Or the chant rate?
In the chant rate, yes.
What is the Chant Rate?
With the chant rate, what we measure
is the percentage of customers
that in each period you can measure
it per month, you can measure
it per year as you like it, they
are down.
That is why we say that it is a very
representative metric that we are
improving or worsening, and we will
think that we want to look for a
positioning with a high degree of
differentiation, that is understood
very well in our market, that
clearly position us there.
And we can choose from many
alternatives, which we have seen some
throughout the course, but we will
select several.
If, for example, we choose to create
a new category, as we did in
The Power MBA and be the first,
it helps us.
It clearly helps us.
Or we can choose, imagine, because we are
the most expensive.
The most expensive turret in the world.
Well, it’s very, it helps
you to reach a position.
Is being a customer-centric company
helping you to have
a differentiated positioning?
I think no.
It is mandatory to be a customer-centric
company, but it doesn’t help you to differentiate
yourself from the proposals
of others.
The wrong option is this.
What comes first?
Positioning, understanding the customer
with segmentation and with the customer
person or marketing mix, which
is the most tactical.
Well, since the first thing is
segmentation and customer person,
it is to understand the customer
how it is, why it buys us, etc.
We will then have to define
what our positioning is
and eventually we will have
to move to the most tactical,
which is the marketing mix.
Inditex, which has many brands like
Versca, like Zara, like Pull &
Bear, like Massimo Dutti.
What is your brand architecture?
They are independent brands.
We’ll think of products like
Netflix, Cabify or Facebook
Ads.
What are they?
Questionnaire, milk cows,
stars or dogs?
They are stars.
Do you know why?
Because they are products that are
in growing markets.
Clearly all of them are
in growing markets and have
achieved a high market
share.
These are good examples of stars.
And finally, we want to quantify the
size of the market and we can do this
with two approaches.
We can do it from above down.
In other words, the market is
worth a billion euros.
We’re going to get a share of
2% and that gives us X, right?
Or we can do it from below
up, which is from the
observation of what
is happening, what we
are doing, the results
we are achieving, etc.
We will extrapolate it upwards.
I recommend that you always
incorporate both approaches, but
if we had to choose one, it is easier
for you to come to good conclusions
from the bottom-up approach,
that by the way, everyone does
the opposite, but in many
cases they come to many
inconsistencies.
What we’re going to do is
look around, analyze what’s happening,
analyze the results we’
re having and from that we’
ll extrapolate it to the
total market.